ltm rule-profiler(1)                                                   BIG-IP TMSH Manual                                                   ltm rule-profiler(1)

MODULE
       ltm

SYNTAX
       Configure the rule-profiler component within the ltm module using the
       syntax shown in the following sections.

   CREATE/MODIFY
        create rule-profiler [name]
        modify rule-profiler [ [name] ... ]

   DISPLAY
        list rule-profiler
        list rule-profiler  [ [ [name] | [glob] | [regex] ] ... ]

   DELETE
        delete rule-profiler [name]

   HELP  help rule-profiler
DESCRIPTION
       You can use the rule-profiler component to configure execution tracing
       of iRules attached to virtual servers. A rule-profiler comprises a set
       of matching filters that help limit the profiling information output, a
       log publisher that directs the output to the intended destination and
       properties for controlling the state of the profiler and the amount of
       time the profiler will be active for.

EXAMPLES

       list rule-profiler

       Displays all iRule Profiler objects.

       delete rule-profiler my_profiler

       Deletes the iRule Profiler named my_profiler.

       rule-profiler my_profiler {
           vs-filter { vs_test }
           rule-filter { rl_http }
           event-filter { HTTP_REQUEST }

           period 1000
           publisher my_tracer_pub
           occ-mask 30
           state disabled
       }
             Creates an iRule Profiler named my_profiler.

       modify rule-profiler my_profiler state enabled

       Enables the rule-profiler causing matching profiling occurrences to be
       published by the publisher associated with the rule-profiler.

OPTIONS
       description
            User defined description.

       period
            Specifies the period (in milliseconds) that a rule-profiler can be
            active for.  When set to 0, the profiler is disabled. Default
            value is 0.

       state
            Specifies the state of the rule-profiler. When set to enabled and
            the profiler consequently started, matching occurrence records are
            emitted via the configured log publisher.  Default value is
            disabled.

       start
            Start profiling. After this command, at the point of the first
            filter match, profiling and timer counting start.

       stop Stop profiling. After this command, the profiling stops.

       vs-filter
            Specifies the name of virtual server(s) for which occurrence
            records can be emitted. If this property is left empty, all
            virtual servers will be considered a match. Default is empty list.

       rule-filter
            Specifies the name of iRule(s) for which occurrence records can be
            emitted. If this property is left empty, all executing iRules will
            be considered a match. Default is empty list.

       event-filter
            Specifies the name of iRule Events for which occurrence records
            can be emitted. If this property is left empty, all iRule Events
            will be considered a match. Default is empty list.

       occ-mask
            Specifies the types of occurrences of interest to the user. This
            is a value set comprised by adding the desired occurrence type.
            The types are defined as follows:

            o    event

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted at the entry
                 point to the TCL subsystem, as close as possible to the
                 occurrence of the external event, and at completion of the
                 execution, just before the TCL subsystem returns to the LTM
                 profile/filter code.

            o    rule

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted at the entry
                 point to the execution of a single iRule handler for the
                 event, and once the TCL VM completes execution of the single
                 event handler.  This bit is useful when there are multiple
                 rules handling the same event.

            o    rule-vm

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted once the TCL
                 VM is about to execute the byte code for an iRule script, and
                 once it completed executing the byte code.

            o    cmd-vm

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted when the TCL
                 VM is beginning the internal setup preceding the invocation
                 of a TCL command (eg. HTTP::uri) and once the internal setup
                 is being torn down.

            o    cmd

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted once the TCL
                 VM is about to invocate a TCL command (eg. HTTP::uri) and
                 once the command execution completes.

            o    var-mod

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted when the TCL
                 VM is changing the value of an iRule variable.

            o    bytecode

                 Specifies that profiling information is emitted when the TCL
                 VM is executing a byte code instruction.

SEE ALSO
       create, delete, list, modify, tmsh

COPYRIGHT
       No part of this program may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or
       by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying,
       recording, or information storage and retrieval systems, for any
       purpose other than the purchaser's personal use, without the express
       written permission of F5 Networks, Inc.

       F5 Networks and BIG-IP (c) Copyright 2008-2017. All rights reserved.

BIG-IP                                                                     2017-05-12                                                       ltm rule-profiler(1)